## 19.0.0
(2019-05-09)

### Early Adopter Windows Support
The early adopter builds for Windows are available for GraalVM. These include
the JDK with the GraalVM compiler enabled, the Native Image capabilities,
GraalVM's JavaScript engine and the developer tools: Chrome inspector based
debugger, Profiler etc.. Currently there is no `gu` utility or the ability to
add support for the other GraalVM languages.

### Java

* We updated the base JDK to 8u212. You can find the JDK release notes at the [Oracle Technology Network website](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/8u212-relnotes-5292913.html).

### Native Image

* Native Image was extracted from the base GraalVM distribution. Currently it is
available as an early adopter plugin. To install it, run: `gu install
native-image`. After this additional step, the `native-image` executable will be
in the `bin` directory, as for the previous releases.

* There was a change in how classes are initialized in a `native-image`. Now, we initialize application classes at run time by default. The policy for initialization is as follows:
  1. All JDK classes are initialized at build time.
  2. We prove the safety of application static initializers after the analysis and initialize the safe classes.
  3. We provide the following flags to control class initialization in a fine-grained way: `--initialize-at-build-time` and `--initialize-at-run-time`.

The performance and startup impact of this change is negligible on all benchmarks that we have.

This change was made to improve end-user experience:s end users will not have
to write substitutions and will not have to deal with instances of unsupported
classes ending up in the image heap. Their applications, given the right
configuration for reflection, proxies, etc., should work without performance
degradation.

To allow framework authors and end users to keep the startup time at minimum we
improved functionality of `--initialize-at-build-time` and
`--initialize-at-run-time`. These flags allow to specify a policy for whole
packages or individual classes. For example, if we have classes `p.C1`, `p.C2`,
… , `p.Cn`, we can eagerly initialize this package with
`--initalize-at-build-time=p`. If we want to delay one of the classes in package
`p` we can simply add `--initialize-at-run-time=p.C1`.

The whole class hierarchy can be initialized at build time by simply passing `--initalize-at-build-time` on the command line.  

We also introduced the flag `-H:+PrintClassInitialization` which allows you to track what class initialization does during the image build. This flag will help you configure the build to work as intended.

What should I do if I am a library author?
1. To get your tests back in check you can use `--intialize-at-build-time` which will revert to the previous behaviour.
2. Then use the flag `-H:+PrintClassInitialization` to see when classes get initialized. Based on this output you can make the proper configuration.
3. Configure your `native-image.properties` by passing `--intialize-at-build-time=<csv-of-classes-or-packages>` to it.
4. Submit a pull request to the downstream libraries with the configuration you believe works well. That way your `native-image.properties` will be concerned only with the classes from your framework.
5. There is a known issue with lambdas being initialized at build time. If your lambda inherits an interface with a default method and static fields, those fields will get pulled into the image. We will provide a fix to this bug in the next two weeks.

### JavaScript

* Fixed various bugs that address compilation problems.

### R

* Fixed a fatal error on Linux platforms when sending `SIGINT` during long computations.
* Fixed issues with the installation to protected locations: the default Renviron file sets the `R_LIBS_USER` to a directory inside the current user's home. Users still have to create this directory manually. Alternatively, the `configure_fastr` script creates the directory, but for the current user only.
* Implemented missing C API: `S_realloc`.

### Ruby

* Various bug fixes. Most notably fixes around OpenSSL C extension compilation.
* Renamed methods in the `TruffleRuby` object.

### Ideal Graph Visualizer (IGV)
* Fixed the [issue](https://github.com/oracle/graal/issues/1248) with the ASTs and call trees not showing up.
