## 1.0-RC10
(2018-12-05)

Bug fixes and performance improvements across all GraalVM components.

### Native image generation

Added a new option `--allow-incomplete-classpath` with GraalVM 1.0-rc10. By default (without specifying this option), classes that are reachable, but missing on the class path, are reported at native image generation time. When specifying this new option, missing classes are only reported at run time. The option provides support for, e.g., libraries that probe the existence of classes, catch the class loading error, and then fall back to a different behavior. This should result in more applications being able to compile to a GraalVM native image.

### JavaScript
The project [changelog](https://github.com/graalvm/graaljs/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) is available on GitHub.

* Added the ability to construct the Java classpath programmatically. If you know at runtime where the classes and jar files are located -- you can add them to the classpath and use Java code from them.
* Compatibility: added support for several proposals which might become parts of ECMAScript 2019: [Array.prototype.{flat,flatMap}](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-flatMap), [well-formed JSON.stringify](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-well-formed-stringify), [globalThis](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-global).
* Compatibility: moved several non-standard builtins behind flags (see the  [changelog](https://github.com/graalvm/graaljs/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)).

### LLVM interpreter (Sulong)
* Improved the debugging experience: internal functions (originating from the GraalVM LLVM interpreter implementation) are now hidden in the stack traces by default and can be debugged with `--inspect.Internal`; and unhandled exceptions are now output to `stderr` instead of `stdout`.

More details can be found in the [project changelog on GitHub](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/sulong/CHANGELOG.md).

### Ruby
GraalVM 1.0-rc10 implementation of Ruby comes with several new features and multiple bug fixes
which can be found in the project [changelog](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) on GitHub.

* Compatibility: implemented the following API and added libraries:
  * The `nkf` and `kconv` standard libraries were added.
  * `Queue` and `SizedQueue`, `#close` and `#closed?`, have been implemented.
  * `Kernel#clone(freeze)` has been implemented.
  * `Warning.warn` has been implemented.
  * `Thread.report_on_exception` has been implemented.
* Compatibility: `ArgumentError` messages now better match MRI.

### Python
* Several users-facing improvements were made to the embedding interfaces: getting/setting the current working directory in Python now uses the appropriate Truffle APIs, Python will report side effects in the KEY_INFO message, and the KEYS message now responds with attributes and methods (not with dict keys).
* The interactive `help()` builtin now works, including asking about language and syntax syntax.

A complete project [changelog](https://github.com/graalvm/graalpython/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
is available on GitHub.

### R
Made important steps for compatibility with the R ecosystem:

* Improved the support for popular packages: Rcpp modules, `dplyr` now mostly works,
and FastR provides its own version of `data.table` (work in progress).
* A new builtin function `install.fastr.packages(pkgs)` can be used to install FastR-specific versions of the `rJava` and `data.table` packages.
* Fixed linking problems on MacOS when installing R packages and using Fortran code.

The full [changelog](https://github.com/oracle/fastr/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
is available on GitHub.

### API changes for GraalVM integrators (SDK + Truffle)
To see the list of changes to the APIs please refer to the project changelogs:

[Graal SDK changelog](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/sdk/CHANGELOG.md)
[Truffle changelog](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/truffle/CHANGELOG.md)

### Tools
**Graal VisualVM**

Several quality of life improvements:
* Added the display of system properties for SVM heap dumps.
* Added support for the fields histogram and merged references for guest languages: JavaScript, Ruby, and so on.
* Improved Graal CPU Sampler accuracy.

**Ideal Graph Visualizer**
* The tool understands `mx` project structure now, e.g. Graal Compiler project when opening sources.
* Improved performance when laying out large graphs.
