## 1.0-RC11
(2019-14-01)

### Native Image Generation

We improved the handling of incomplete classpaths, i.e., code that references classes that are not provided on the classpath. The approach we took for RC10 caused problems in corner cases that would have been difficult to fix, therefore we implemented a different approach. Thanks to everyone who tried our initial approach and reported problems on GitHub. We attempted to verify that all reported problems are solved with the new approach.

### JavaScript

* Graal.js only supports ECMAScript 5 (ES5) and newer, and enforces that rule.
* Added support for sharing Java objects using the experimental Node.js Worker Threads API.
* Added support for ScriptEngine GLOBAL_SCOPE bindings.
* Added options to enable/disable several extension features e.g., `print()` or `load()`.
* Added options to disable features for security reasons e.g., `eval()`.

More details can be found in the [project changelog on GitHub](https://github.com/graalvm/graaljs/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#version-100-rc11).

### LLVM interpreter (Sulong)

GraalVM now reports source filenames and line numbers for LLVM functions in stack traces if the bitcode is compiled with debug information, even if the original source is not available.

Find a complete [changelog](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/sulong/CHANGELOG.md#version-100-rc11) on GitHub.

### Ruby

A complete project [changelog](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#10-rc-11) is available on GitHub. Here is a short list of most notable changes:

* Allow signal `0` to be used with `Process.kill` (#1474).
* Implemented `Dir.each_child`.
* Adding missing support for the `close_others` option to `exec` and `spawn`.
* Implemented the missing `MatchData#named_captures` method (#1512).
* `Process::CLOCK_` constants have been given the same value as in standard Ruby.
* All core files now make use of frozen `String` literals, reducing the number of `String` allocations for core methods.

### Python

The [changelog](https://github.com/graalvm/graalpython/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#version-100-rc11) is available on GitHub.

* Add the `ginstall` custom module to install known packages such as NumPy and setup tools using `graalpython -m ginstall`.
* Add support for the `yield from` syntax.
* Add more built-in methods to the `time` module.
* Add support for the standard `zipfile` module.
* Add the built-in `_cvs` module.
* Various bug fixes and performance improvements.
* Remove exposure of internal languages through `polyglot.eval`.

### R

* The R version was upgraded to R-3.5.1.
* R does not print or log any details for internal errors unless it is run with  `--jvm.DR:+PrintErrorStacktracesToFile`.
* Newly implemented R native API functions:  `Rf_duplicated`, `Rf_setVar`, `norm_rand`, `exp_rand`.
* Numerous bug fixes.

More details can be found in the project [changelog](https://github.com/oracle/fastr/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#10-rc-11) on GitHub.


### API changes for GraalVM integrators (SDK + Truffle)

Please refer to the project changelogs for a list of APIs changes:
- [Graal SDK changelog](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/sdk/CHANGELOG.md#version-10-rc11)
- [Truffle changelog](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/truffle/CHANGELOG.md#version-100-rc11)


### Tools

**Graal VisualVM**

* Added CPU monitoring of native-image processes.
* Improved the search feature in text views - thread dumps, OQL console results, etc..
* Heap viewer is now displaying JVM arguments, has improved performance and memory management.
