## 1.0-RC12
(2019-02-04)

### Native Image Generation
Native images now check the remaining available stack size on every method call,
and throw a `StackOverflowError` on stack overflows.

We continued the work on the support of incomplete classpaths. There were no big changes,
but only small bugfixes based on users feedback. The support for incomplete classpaths
now allows to run the native image generator with bytecode verification,
i.e., the option `--no-verify` is no longer passed to the Java HotSpot VM
when running the native image generator.

### R
An extensive list of changes to GraalVM implementation of R is available [on GitHub](https://github.com/oracle/fastr/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#10-rc-12). Here is a short list of most notable ones:

* FastR now uses the R base function `print` to implement `TruffleLanguage#toString`, so that tools and debuggers (like the Chrome Dev Tools console) format values (e.g., `data.frame` objects) in a familiar, R-like, way.
* GraalVM implementation of R provides GNU-R compatible `parseData` for expressions parsed via `parse(...,keep.source=T)`, which enables packages that use this functionality (like `lambda.r` and `plumber`) to work.
* Added a dummy implementation of the ALTREP framework to avoid linking problems.

### JavaScript
* Updated Node.js from 10.9.0 to version 10.15.0.
* A new option `js.experimental-array-prototype` added to set prototype of array-like non-JS objects (like `ProxyArray` or Java List) to `Array.prototype`. It makes it possible to use functions like `map` or `forEach` on these objects directly.

More details can be found in the [project changelog](https://github.com/graalvm/graaljs/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#version-100-rc12) on GitHub.

### LLVM interpreter (Sulong)
* In order to streamline the polyglot APIs in Sulong, we deprecated the `truffle_*` builtin functions. We also broke binary compatibility to bitcode compiled with `polyglot.h` from version 1.0.0-RC2 (or older).
* Read-only globals are now placed in read-only memory. This was necessary to accommodate some changes in mac OS Mojave's libc that raise errors when format strings are placed in the writable memory.

The [project changelog](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/sulong/CHANGELOG.md#version-100-rc12) is available on GitHub.

### Ruby
This version came with the compatibility improvements:

* Change to a new system for handling Ruby objects in C extensions which greatly increases compatibility with MRI.
* Support for `BigDecimal#to_r` was implemented (See [#1521](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby/issues/1521)).

A complete project [changelog](https://github.com/oracle/truffleruby/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#10-rc-12) is available on GitHub.

### Python
To see a complete list of changes, please refer to the project [changelog](https://github.com/graalvm/graalpython/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#version-100-rc12).

* Added support for the `__class__` variable in the class scope.
* Initial support of the `venv` standard-library tool, the built-in `_bz2` module and the `pandas` package was started up.

### API changes for GraalVM integrators (SDK + Truffle)
The Truffle and Graal SDK changes between GraalVM versions are summarized in the project changelogs:

- [Graal SDK changelog](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/sdk/CHANGELOG.md#graal-sdk-changelog)
- [Truffle changelog](https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/truffle/CHANGELOG.md#version-100-rc12)

### Tools
**Graal VisualVM**

* Added the ability to create native image heap dump directly from Graal VisualVM interface.
* Improved heap dump support in the native image.
